one of the most important mathematical
concepts to understand is the order of
operations order of operations is what
allows you to perform a long string of
operations like this in the correct
order to arrive at the correct answer
the mnemonic that most people use to
remember the correct order of operations
is PEMDAS parentheses exponents
multiplication division addition
subtraction this is most commonly
remembered by the phrase please excuse
my dear Aunt Sally now important thing
to understand with PEMDAS is that
multiplication and division have the
same priority level and addition and
subtraction have the same priority level
if you have a string of operations that
have both multiplication and division
you work the multiplication and division
from left to right in whatever order
they happen to come and it's the same
thing with addition and subtraction
let's look at the example here first
thing we're going to look for is
parentheses we have two sets of
parentheses and so we need to resolve
them first 8 minus 5 equals 3 and 9 plus
3 equals 12 so we resolved our
parentheses next we have exponents we
only have one exponent here and it's 4
to the second power which is 16 so we've
resolved exponents next is
multiplication and division but first
let's rewrite this to see what's left we
have 3 times 6 plus 16 divided by 2
times 12 divided by 3 that will work
from left to right on multiplication and
division 3 times 6 is 18 16 divided by 2
is 8 I'll rewrite the rest of this on
here so that we have it 8 times 12 is 96
96 divided by 3 is 32 and so you see we
had
string of operations here with division
and multiplication and we just work from
left to right so what we have left now
is 18 plus 32 and so that's just one
operation we'll add these two up and we
get 50